
Protesters burn property in front of the U.S. embassy compound, in Baghdad. [image: BBC]

Protesters angered by recent US airstrikes targeting an Iranian-backed Iraqi militia have attacked the American embassy compound in Baghdad.
US troops fired tear gas to disperse a crowd that got into a reception area in the compound, which is in the capital's heavily fortified Green Zone.
A guard post on the street nearby was also set alight.
US President Donald Trump accused Iran of "orchestrating" the attack and said it would be "held fully responsible".
Iran denied this, and condemned the "audacity" of the US in blaming Tehran.
At least 25 fighters died when the US bombed bases associated with the Kataib Hezbollah militia in western Iraq and eastern Syria on Sunday.
[Source: BBC]

Independent Board of Inquiry to investigate grounding incident of RFNS Puamau - Commander Kalouniwai 
	        The Commander of the Republic of Fiji Military Forces, Major General Ro Jone Kalouniwai confirms the RFMF has decided to convene an independent Board ...	        
10 hours ago

        Police are seeking assistance in locating 13-year-old Ashwariya Roselyn Kumar, 34-year-old Ashneel Narayan and 18-year-old Salanieta ...

        A 20-year-old woman has been found dead in Vitogo, Lautoka  on Saturday and Police are now awaiting the post mortem result to establish the cause of ...

        The Fiscal Review Committee says the government has not responded to the developments with urgency and flexibility that is needed relating to the ...

        Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, Professor Biman Prasad says the debate on the parliamentarians’ pay increase has already happened, ...

        Magistrate Yogesh Prasad will deliver his ruling on Wednesday after hearing the submissions today in the matter of former Attorney General, Aiyaz ...

        A crisis has erupted within the FijiFirst party relating to the termination of 17 members of parliament who supported the government's motion to ...

        It is alleged that between the 30th of June, 2022 and the 12th of July, 2022 in Suva, whilst being employed in the civil service as the Acting Prime ...