
Former DA leader Mmusi Maimane may not have a party to lead anymore, but he donned a jacket in the blue of his old party, nevertheless, to tweet a New Year message on Tuesday. "Bagaetsho Dumelang. Happy New Year to you all, I'd like to wish you a great decade full of hope and prosperity where we build a great nation, we can all be proud of," he tweeted.He wished South Africans and citizens all over the world "a very prosperous 2020". "It's
 a new decade it gives us an opportunity to forget what lies behind and 
truly press on to the future," said Maimane after a torrid year. Bagaetsho Dumelang. Happy New Year to you all, I'd like to wish you a great decade full of hope and prosperity where we build a great nation we can all be proud of. ???? pic.twitter.com/BsyqDeXAgk— Mmusi Maimane (@MmusiMaimane) December 31, 2019On October 23, he announced that he would step down as DA leader, saying it was "not the vehicle best suited to take forward the vision of building one South Africa".The next day, he announced his departure from the party. The shock announcement came as Helen Zille was brought out of retirement and voted as head of the party's federal executive council chair.Former Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba also left, as did DA federal chairperson Athol Trollip.John Steenhuisen is now the DA's interim leader.READ: EFF, DA ready to tackle South Africa's 2020 challengesIn his message for 2020, Maimane said: "I pray that next year will be a blessed year for all of us South Africans."He has joined an initiative called the "People's Dialogue" launched by Mashaba. 


We live in a world where facts and fiction get blurred
Who we choose to trust can have a profound impact on our lives. Join thousands of devoted South Africans who look to News24 to bring them news they can trust every day. As we celebrate 25 years, become a News24 subscriber as we strive to keep you informed, inspired and empowered.


WATCH | From delivery driver to graduate: Tshireletso Makabe's journey to honour...


        © 2024 (3.0.24158.16) 24.com. All rights reserved.
        