The Ministry of Women, Children and Poverty Alleviation is warning  its social protection recipients and elderly persons that some people in the community are going around impersonating welfare officers, claiming that Government through the Ministry is giving funds for Christmas and New Year.
It says these persons are promising that funds to the amount of $9,000 will be provided for Tropical Cyclone Sarai Relief and in order for recipients to receive the assistance, they will have to pay a fee of $90 to $150 for the processing of their application.
The Ministry has warned people that this is not true and also Social welfare does not charge a processing fee.
It says these impersonators are targeting the elderly, and unfortunately, several recipients had been duped in this bogus scheme in Lautoka.
The Ministry is advising all its recipients that this is a hoax and therefore they are not to accommodate any individuals approaching them with such information.
If it happens, people should demand a Ministry ID card and report the matter to the nearest Police Station or Social Welfare Office.

Independent Board of Inquiry to investigate grounding incident of RFNS Puamau - Commander Kalouniwai 
	        The Commander of the Republic of Fiji Military Forces, Major General Ro Jone Kalouniwai confirms the RFMF has decided to convene an independent Board ...	        
10 hours ago

        Police are seeking assistance in locating 13-year-old Ashwariya Roselyn Kumar, 34-year-old Ashneel Narayan and 18-year-old Salanieta ...

        A 20-year-old woman has been found dead in Vitogo, Lautoka  on Saturday and Police are now awaiting the post mortem result to establish the cause of ...

        The Fiscal Review Committee says the government has not responded to the developments with urgency and flexibility that is needed relating to the ...

        Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, Professor Biman Prasad says the debate on the parliamentarians’ pay increase has already happened, ...

        Magistrate Yogesh Prasad will deliver his ruling on Wednesday after hearing the submissions today in the matter of former Attorney General, Aiyaz ...

        A crisis has erupted within the FijiFirst party relating to the termination of 17 members of parliament who supported the government's motion to ...

        It is alleged that between the 30th of June, 2022 and the 12th of July, 2022 in Suva, whilst being employed in the civil service as the Acting Prime ...